Authenticity, Cultural Aesthetics, Berlin

Hi all,

I hope everyone is doing well. I’ve honestly had a pretty rough go of it the last few weeks — feeling a little discontent with people and class at the same time, but I’m largely through that now 😌 !

I’ve tried a few different things in this newsletter — I had a large assortment of links again that I tried to sort into a few categories like I usually do, but changed the way I list them to try and make it more digestible. Let me know what you think!

Big Takeaways
Post-Authentic Sincerity (v strong essay and cool design!)

Design Thinking is a Rebrand for White Supremacy - Flat Journal (thank u julia for sending)

28: Out of the valley - good quote from this one:

“Tech is no longer an industry these days: it's a system of values, a way of interacting with the world. (If you don't believe me, try to define what "tech" actually means. It doesn't refer to software, or hardware, or fintech, or manufacturing, or...) Tech is a gushing oil well that buoys new, unproven ideas up and up, spraying them down to the masses.”

Nadia is one of my favorite writers <3. When I explain the ‘philosophy of innovation’ bit of my concentration, people often assume I study design thinking or something of the sort - maybe VC if I’m talking to someone more familiar with startup land. While VC is a big part of that, I also try and look at alternatives as I’m not VC’s biggest fan - grants are another easy alternative, which is her field of study.

Tennissance: The Laws of the Court (I miss playing tennis ☹️. David Foster Wallace also has a great piece about his own tennis youth in Harper’s.)

Why Working Out With Other People Is So Powerful (Collectives, I miss competing with people esp. in a sports context where u push yrself like that. Will be hopefully completing a 10k in June with David!


Aesthetics
The Birth of Nike Gyakusou | Fall/Winter 2010

the nike gyakusou collabs are some of my favorite to look out for. never knew the story behind the brand, i think the original 2010 pieces still look great (timeless? been reading some about the idea of timelessness as well) 12 years later!

On The Cusp of 2022

written by the founder behind one of my favorite brands.

Sneakersnstuff 2.0

gor-tex and street culture

PAREL STUDIOS: DEVELOPMENT_04 - THE NEW ORDER /

been trying to explain the direction i want to take my fashion in to some of y’all more recently → this kinda gets there. more-so the words than the actual brand they work for. i like the sling bag it looks a lil flimsy tho

Logos We Love (Soccer Edition)

I WANT MORE SPORTS DESIGN ANALYSIS

Life high in the mountains, primitivism & simple living

yummy back on my zen bullshit

pgLang

kendrick’s new project aprntly - THE VISUAL MISSION STATEMENT feels like a TRIP

A$AP Rocky - Gunz N Butter (Official Video) ft. Juicy J

the visuals of the system, 4 years old now. i think the visuals still hold up really well



by Johnson Tsang
Soft Web
Laurel, Taichi, Mark, Megan (this is so incredibly cute?)

Feral Earth (cool temporal aspect to this site!)

The Forest (fun!)

Taking a Walk across the Internet | Magazine | MoMA

someone makes a decision that speed / frictionless is the way to go — what if friction would make your experience better?

Wax Radio

local greenpoint radio station online. maybe i move to greenpoint come grad 🤔

How to run a small social network site for your friends

thank you julia again! mozilla / ford foundation funded research into running your own social networks

Tech & Sincerity
Substack's Ideology (<3 substack)

Spotify just patented its own A&R technology to predict breaking artists - think how big platforms taste-make is really interesting. how do platforms that tell you things about yourself (i.e. co-star) change the way you view yourself? how do the circles you get stuck in on twitter affect the way you think of, say, tech land? i know theres a lot of literature out on this already but… yeah still think about it a lot.

The internet doesn't have to be miserable!! - interview with Dean Kissick on one of my favorite (if not the fav) newsletter i sub to tbh

inspired by Drew Austin’s analysis of non-grammable locations from BBSP, i will try to reason through this statrement: “And so you see a bunch of smart, disillusioned, funny, angry young people exploring a kind of post-leftist, post-post-ironic unintelligibility — or maybe trying to imagine new, harder-to-co-opt ways of being sincere… which strikes me as resuscitating an earlier, weirder internet era…”

I think a lot of young (even to me) internet culture that most people think of as ‘weird’ is really just an attempt to be harder to co-opt.


I can write more on this in the future when I have more time - lmk if you’d like that.

Misc.
this section taught me that all roads lead to berlin…!!!

The Quest for Berlin's Best Pizza - omfg i am salivating

Oana Stănescu - Stories | Exceptional ALIEN - dope ass interdisciplinary romanian architect who talks abt moving to berlin... makes me want to MOVE

more on architecture / local and well-being

What urbanites seek in mountain valleys & periurban hamlets

Zen and the ephemeral: why light and vistas improve our wellbeing

The Moroccan Food Forest That Inspired an Agricultural Revolution (Moroccan forest farming!?)

fun aesthetics

Meet Tim Gagnon, Nasa's go-to patch designer

WHAT YOUR STYLE SAYS ABOUT YOU IN 2022 - funny video

The Potato Revolution - food history video

With My Little Eye - yummy visuals

OCHIAI SHOHEI - 画家 落合翔平のオフィシャルサイトです - cool sketches

We're Building Computers Wrong - analog chips built for ML. whenever people ask me if we live in a simulation i saw something’s probably created biological computers and for some reason we’re in one that wants consciousness. looking at different ways to ‘make chips’ fits in that mold imo

That’s it folks, lmk if you found something interesting. I will leave you with my favorite poem from my friend Aarushi’s latest collection: